What it is to command confidence is
not just about the numbers themselves
to be confident in somebody or someone or an
organisation you need to understand their context.
In any situation it's not
just the thing itself but it's who's
saying it and your sense of their motives.
So we start with this human understanding of
what is it that creates
confidence and that begins with context.
We call that Trustworthiness,
we call that a really core thing that anybody
publishing statistics needs to do is
demonstrate that they are trustworthy they are worthy
of trust and in our code that's our starting point.
It's our first pillar of Trustworthiness
and we create around it a set of commitments
that organisations can make,
they can make publicly, to demonstrate
that they're worthy of trust.
These are really kind of meaningful commitments
that they make themselves accountable to
live up to. Really simple things often
things like there will be a Head of
Profession for statistics, a named person
who is responsible that organisations
statistical output or an even simpler thing.
That the organisation will commit
to publishing its statistics on a particular day
at a particular time, in advance,
and come what may they will meet that commitment.
There's a whole range of other commitments
they all underpin this organisation being worthy of trust
demonstrating that it is something or an
organisation that people can have confidence in.